README.md, before:

# cscroll

A small file manager written in C.


## Usage

If an argument is provided, cscroll will open the path supplied. Otherwise it will open on the current working directory.

Files will be highlighted and shown with an identifier in correspondence to the file type.

#### Colors & Identifiers:

* Red, `?`: Unknown File
* Yellow, `#`: Block or char device
* Yellow, `|`: FIFO (named pipe)
* Green, `*`: File is executable
* Blue, `/`: Directory
* Cyan, `@`: Symbolic link
* Magenta, `=`: Unix socket
* Magenta, No identifier: Media file
* Red, No identifier: Archive or compressed file
* White, No identifier: Regular file

Files that are executable but have another identifier will keep the identifier but be colored green. Symbolic links that point to directories will be suffixed with `@ => /` and may be entered as a normal directory. Otherwise, deletion of a symbolic link will not delete whatever the link points to; only the link itself and opening one will open what the link points to.

### Options

* `-p`: Print the path cscroll ends in. Useful for commands like `cd $(cscroll -p)` to cd into the last directory.

### Commands

* `j`, `Ctrl+n` or `down arrow key`: Move the cursor down
* `k`, `Ctrl+p` or `up arrow key`: Move the cursor up
* `h`, `Ctrl+b` or `left arrow key`: Enter the previous directory
* `l`, `Ctrl+f`, `right arrow key`, or `enter key`: If the file the cursor is on is a directory, enter that directory. Otherwise open the file with `xdg-open`
* `g`: Place cursor on first file
* `G`: Place cursor on last file
* `.`: Toggle whether or not to show dot files
* `d`: Delete the file the cursor is on (a [prompt](#options-prompt) will be shown first)
* `m`: Mark the file the cursor is on
* `r`: Rename the file the cursor is on ([see file renaming](#renaming))
* `c`: Cut the file the cursor is currently on or all the marked files. Pressing twice in the same directory will cancel the cut
* `p`: Paste all cut files into the current directory. Pasting in the same directory where the cut originated will cancel the cut
* `:`: Open a commands prompt ([see 'Command Prompt' section](#command-prompt))
* `/`: Search for a file in the current directory using a POSIX regex
* `!`: Run a shell command ([see shell commands](#shell-commands))
* `q`: Quit

#### Options Prompt

An options prompt will pop up in the center of the screen with text at the top of the popup and one or more options at the bottom. To move the cursor to the left, any of the left or up keys will work. To move it to the right, any of the down or right keys (except for enter) will work. To select the current option, press either the space bar or the enter key.The `q` key will quit the prompt without selecting an option.

#### Command Prompt

The command prompt will show up upon pressing `:` and the prompt itself is prefixed with a colon. Here you may enter multi-character commands. Available commands are:

* `ma`: **M**ark **A**ll files in the directory
* `mu`: **M**ark **U**nmark: Unmarks all files on the directory
* `ca`: **C**ut **A**ll: Cuts all files in the current directory

#### Renaming

The `r` command will show a prompt (similar to a command prompt but without a prefix) where the new file name is to be expected. A file may only be renamed within the same directory. E.g. if the directory cscroll is in is `/home/user/downloads` and the file `image.png` is renamed to `/home/user/image.png`, it will fail. The file can only be renamed to something like `my_image.png`. (Attempting to move a file across directories is not possible with the rename function.) Mass renaming is not possible.

#### Shell Commands

Pressing `!` will open a prompt prefixed with `!` which will run the shell command entered into it. Entering %f will format the command entered with the name of the file the cursor is currently on. To escape this format (i.e. to not have it be replaced with the file name), enter `%%f`. The output will be literally `%f`. E.g. `vim %f` will format to `vim FILE` where `FILE` is the name of the file the cursor is on. `echo %%f`, however, will format to `echo %f` and the output of the command will literally be `%f`.

## Installation

The cscroll binary has one dependency to run: ncurses. To compile cscroll you must install `libncurses`. However, compilation through the makefile requires `pkg-config` as well.

On Debian and Ubuntu based system this should be titled `libncurses-dev` and may be installed with `sudo apt install libncurses-dev`.

Then run `make` to compile. The program will then be accessible by running `./cscroll`.

Commit message:

added option to turn off colors

README.md, after:

# cscroll

A small file manager written in C.


## Usage

If an argument is provided, cscroll will open the path supplied. Otherwise it will open on the current working directory. ([see 'Options'](#options))

Files will be highlighted and shown with an identifier in correspondence to the file type.

#### Colors & Identifiers:

* Red, `?`: Unknown File
* Yellow, `#`: Block or char device
* Yellow, `|`: FIFO (named pipe)
* Green, `*`: File is executable
* Blue, `/`: Directory
* Cyan, `@`: Symbolic link
* Magenta, `=`: Unix socket
* Magenta, No identifier: Media file
* Red, No identifier: Archive or compressed file
* White, No identifier: Regular file

Files that are executable but have another identifier will keep the identifier but be colored green. Symbolic links that point to directories will be suffixed with `@ => /` and may be entered as a normal directory. Otherwise, deletion of a symbolic link will not delete whatever the link points to; only the link itself and opening one will open what the link points to.

### Options

* `-p`: Print the path cscroll ends in. Useful for commands like `cd $(cscroll -p)` to cd into the last directory.
* `-nc`: Turn off coloring.

### Commands

* `j`, `Ctrl+n` or `down arrow key`: Move the cursor down
* `k`, `Ctrl+p` or `up arrow key`: Move the cursor up
* `h`, `Ctrl+b` or `left arrow key`: Enter the previous directory
* `l`, `Ctrl+f`, `right arrow key`, or `enter key`: If the file the cursor is on is a directory, enter that directory. Otherwise open the file with `xdg-open`
* `g`: Place cursor on first file
* `G`: Place cursor on last file
* `.`: Toggle whether or not to show dot files
* `d`: Delete the file the cursor is on (a [prompt](#options-prompt) will be shown first)
* `m`: Mark the file the cursor is on
* `r`: Rename the file the cursor is on ([see file renaming](#renaming))
* `c`: Cut the file the cursor is currently on or all the marked files. Pressing twice in the same directory will cancel the cut
* `p`: Paste all cut files into the current directory. Pasting in the same directory where the cut originated will cancel the cut
* `:`: Open a commands prompt ([see 'Command Prompt' section](#command-prompt))
* `/`: Search for a file in the current directory using a POSIX regex
* `!`: Run a shell command ([see shell commands](#shell-commands))
* `q`: Quit

#### Options Prompt

An options prompt will pop up in the center of the screen with text at the top of the popup and one or more options at the bottom. To move the cursor to the left, any of the left or up keys will work. To move it to the right, any of the down or right keys (except for enter) will work. To select the current option, press either the space bar or the enter key.The `q` key will quit the prompt without selecting an option.

#### Command Prompt

The command prompt will show up upon pressing `:` and the prompt itself is prefixed with a colon. Here you may enter multi-character commands. Available commands are:

* `ma`: **M**ark **A**ll files in the directory
* `mu`: **M**ark **U**nmark: Unmarks all files on the directory
* `ca`: **C**ut **A**ll: Cuts all files in the current directory

#### Renaming

The `r` command will show a prompt (similar to a command prompt but without a prefix) where the new file name is to be expected. A file may only be renamed within the same directory. E.g. if the directory cscroll is in is `/home/user/downloads` and the file `image.png` is renamed to `/home/user/image.png`, it will fail. The file can only be renamed to something like `my_image.png`. (Attempting to move a file across directories is not possible with the rename function.) Mass renaming is not possible.

#### Shell Commands

Pressing `!` will open a prompt prefixed with `!` which will run the shell command entered into it. Entering %f will format the command entered with the name of the file the cursor is currently on. To escape this format (i.e. to not have it be replaced with the file name), enter `%%f`. The output will be literally `%f`. E.g. `vim %f` will format to `vim FILE` where `FILE` is the name of the file the cursor is on. `echo %%f`, however, will format to `echo %f` and the output of the command will literally be `%f`.

## Installation

The cscroll binary has one dependency to run: ncurses. To compile cscroll you must install `libncurses`. However, compilation through the makefile requires `pkg-config` as well.

On Debian and Ubuntu based system this should be titled `libncurses-dev` and may be installed with `sudo apt install libncurses-dev`.

Then run `make` to compile. The program will then be accessible by running `./cscroll`.
